Doc: Add examples for `UPSERT` and `UPDATE` (#614)
surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com: doc-surrealdb_versioned_docs/version-2.x/surrealql/statements/update.mdx

:::

Let's look at some examples of how to use the `UPDATE` statement: First we'll create a `person` table with the [`CREATE`](/docs/surrealdb/2.x/surrealql/statements/create) Statement so that the examples can be run.

```surql
-- Create a Schemaless person table
CREATE person CONTENT {
    name: 'John',
    company: 'Surrealist',
    skills: ['JavaScript', 'Go' , 'SurrealQL']
};
```

Let's say we wanted to update the `person` table with a new field `skills` and add a new skill `breathing` to the existing skills.

To do this we would use the following query:

```surql
-- Update all records in a table
-- The skills field is an array. The += operator alone is enough for SurrealDB to infer the type
UPDATE person SET skills += 'breathing';
```
The above query will update all records in the `person` table by adding the skill `breathing` to the `skills` field.

For more specific updates, you can specify a record ID to update a single record. The following query will update the record with the ID `person:tobie` :

```surql
CREATE person:tobie CONTENT {
    name: 'Tobie',
    company: 'SurrealDB',
    skills: ['JavaScript', 'Go' , 'SurrealQL']
};
```

> To update the record with the ID `person:tobie` to add "Rust" as a skill, use the following query:

Author: ```suggestion
Next, you can update the record with the ID `person:tobie` to add "Rust" as a skill, using the following query:
```

```surql
-- Update a record with a specific string id to add a new skill: 'Rust'
UPDATE person:tobie SET skills = ['JavaScript', 'Go' , 'SurrealQL','Rust']; 
```

:::note
__Note:__ When specifying fields to update using the `SET` clause, it is possible to increment and decrement numeric values, and add or remove values from arrays. To increment a numeric value, or to add an item to an array, use the `+=` operator. To decrement a numeric value, or to remove a value from an array, use the `-=` operator.
:::

```surql
-- Update a document and remove a tag from skills array
UPDATE person:tobie SET skills -= 'Go';
```

## Conditional Update with `WHERE` clause

> The update statement supports conditional matching of records using a `WHERE` clause. If the expression in the `WHERE` clause evaluates to true, then the respective record will be updated.

Author: ```suggestion
The `UPDATE` statement supports conditional matching of records using a `WHERE` clause. If the expression in the `WHERE` clause evaluates to true, then the respective record will be updated.
```
